# 🛒Joyeux Shoppers Data Analysis 

This README file gives a detailed description of the project. Three years' worth of sales data from Joyeux Shoppers, an online retailer, was used for this research. Products, users, orders, distribution_centers, orders_items, inventory_items, and events are all included in the data. Sales statistics, demographics, gender, age distribution, top-selling products, categories, and brand information were all obtained from these data. Analysis was also done on loyalty programmes and top-performing channels. Using PowerBI, a visual representation of this analysis was created. 

## Data Preparation & Loading

A MySQL 8.0 database named capstone_db was created using AWS RDS to store the provided sales data and load the data into respective tables. The free tier elegible instance type was used.

## Table Creation 

Using SQL queries, seven (7) tables were created from the CSV files provided. Below is the list;
- Products
- Orders
- Orders_items
- Users
- Inventory_items
- Events
- distribution_centers

## Design an ERD

A simple Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) to visualize the relationships between these tables was created using draw.io

## Python Scripts 

Using Jupyter Notebook, Python scripts were written to load the CSV files into their respective tables in the MySQL database.

## Sales Analysis

The total revenue generated on monthly basis was generated and the result includes the date, total sales, total orders and total customers

## Demography Analysis

A query was written to display the breakdown of the total customers by country and this also included the gender of the customers

## Gender Analysis

A query was written to display the revenue generated by gender. This was represented by M (Male) and F (Female)

## Age Distribution

A query to display the order distribution across various age groups was written. This was done in order for the company to know whic=h age group to target for its marketing campaign.

## Top Selling Products, Brands and Categories

Top selling products, brands and categories were identified using the quantity of goods sold. The total sales value as well as the total quantity sold were displayed

## Conclusion

The analysis done on the sales data from Joyeus Shoppers is summarised in this README file. The knowledge acquired is extremely valuable for improving corporate operations and making strategic decisions. Please refer to the SQL queries and documentation for further explanation.


